NOTE: This procedure is only valid when using SLiRP as network interface. PCAP 
      cannot be used for netbooting. Netboot is only available on host systems 
      that support extended file attributes via sys/xattr.h.

      Images need to be extracted to case sensitive filesystems. It is not 
      possible to extract images of magneto-optical disks using ditool. It is 
      also not possible to extract images which have NeXTstep 0.8 installed. 

      Netbooting NeXTstep 0.9 only works using ROM 0.8 and netbooting NeXTstep 
      1.0 and later only works using ROM 1.0 and later.

      Before you start you need these things:
      a  ditool: This command line utility comes with Previous. It can extract 
         files from raw disk images with NeXT (UFS) file systems to a directory 
         and prepare it for netboot. To call ditool you have to specify the path 
         and name of the utility, the input file and the output directory on the 
         command line. 
      b  image.dd: This is the raw disk image you want to extract to some 
         directory. It contains a bootable NeXTstep system. To extract it you 
         have to specify the name of the image including the path to it after 
         the "-im" option when calling the ditool utility.
      c  nfsdir: This is the directory you want to share with the guest system 
         via NFS. It is recommended to start with an empty directory. The 
         bootable raw disk image will be extracted to this directory. During 
         netboot it will be mounted at / on the guest system. To copy the 
         bootable system to it you have to specify the path to the directory 
         after the "-out" option when calling the ditool utility.


NOWTO: Setup netboot under NeXTstep 1.0 and later:

1. From the command line on your host system use the following command to 
   extract your image (add the path where ditool is located in front of its 
   name, replace image.dd with the path and name of the image you want to 
   extract and replace nfsdir with the path to the directory you want to use as 
   root directory for your guest system):
      ditool -im image.dd -out nfsdir -netboot

2. You can now netboot by setting "NFS shared directory" in the "Network" 
   options to nfsdir and "Boot device" from "Boot" options to "Ethernet".


NOWTO: Setup netboot under NeXTstep 0.9:

1. Prepare the image you want to use for netboot by setting up networking using 
   the procedure from networking.howto.txt.

2. From your guest system open Shell (you find it in /NextApps directory) and 
   copy some files using these commands from the command line:
      su
      cp /sdmach /private/tftpboot/mach
      cp /usr/standalone/boot /private/tftpboot
      touch /me/fstab

3. Open "/me/fstab" and add these two lines to the file:
      nfs:/ / nfs rw,noauto 0 0
      nfs:/private /private nfs rw,noauto 0 0

4. Shut down the guest system and from the command line on your host system use 
   the following command to extract your image (add the path where ditool is 
   located in front of its name, replace image.dd with the path and name of the 
   image you want to extract and replace nfsdir with the path to the directory 
   you want to use for netboot):
      ditool -im image.dd -out nfsdir

5. Using your host system replace the file "fstab" located in the directory 
   "nfsdir/private/etc" with the version located in the directory "nfsdir/me".

6. You can now netboot by setting "NFS shared directory" in the "Network" 
   options to nfsdir and "Boot device" from "Boot" options to "Ethernet".


NOTE: The procedures in ditool's netboot preparation routines are derived from 
      what the "newclient" script from NeXTstep does when called like this:
         su
         newclient -s nfs previous
